On the other hand, the utterly bad is in general profligate, and therefore very poor while he who spends on noble objects, and acquires wealth by just means only, can hardly be remarkable for riches, any more than he can be very poor. If he complies with this condition, the nearest kinsman of the deceased shall take pity upon him and be reconciled to him but if he refuses to remain in exile, or visits the temples unpurified, then let the kinsman proceed against him, and demand a double penalty. Still I cannot but say what appears to me to be right and true, Cleinias. And now, what will this city be.
As in some writers of fiction, so also in philosophers, we may observe the effect of age. We shall be sure to remember, Stranger. I will tell you how that occurs One of them has to do with fear in this the beasts also participate, and quite young children - I mean courage for a courageous temper is a gift of nature and not of reason.
If a man exchanges either money for money, or anything whatever for anything else, either with or without life, let him give and receive them genuine and unadulterated, in accordance with the law. Ilium was built in a wide plain, on a low hill, which was surrounded by streams descending from Ida.
A kind of simplicity or stupidity is ascribed to them. A man who considers all this is fairly at a loss. Very good. Would you make a bargain with a man in order to try whether he is honest.
Now in every man there are two parts the better and superior, which rules, and the worse and inferior, which serves and the ruling part of him is always to be preferred to the subject. But I believe that I can tell better than either of you what the many say about them.
Very good. And he who would attain all virtue should be trained amid pleasures as well as pains. There was much less exclusiveness than at Sparta the citizens were to have an interest in the government of neighbouring states, and to know what was going on in the rest of the world.
Truly, Stranger, you see with the keen vision of age.
By all means. The wardens of the agora, the city, or the country, as the case may be, shall see to the execution of the law.
Their common danger, and the influence of their ancient constitution, greatly tended to promote harmony among them. The irony of the earlier dialogues, of which some traces occur in the tenth book, is replaced by a severity which hardly condescends to regard human things. And what shall be the punishment suited to him who has thrown away his weapons of defence. Of the remaining children, the females must be given in marriage according to the law to be hereafter enacted the males may be assigned to citizens who have no children of their own. What security.
That, again, is true. That seems to be a charming poet of yours I have read some other verses of his, which are very clever but I do not know much of him, for foreign poets are very little read among the Cretans.
And do you, Megillus and Cleinias, answer for the young man as you did before and if any impediment comes in our way, I will take the word out of your mouths, and carry you over the river as I did just now.
And we must acknowledge that all this sort of thing, which aims only at swiftness and smoothness and a brutish noise, and uses the flute and the lyre not as the mere accompaniments of the dance and song, is exceedingly coarse and tasteless. The territory should be sufficient to maintain the citizens in moderation, and the population should be numerous enough to defend themselves, and sometimes to aid their neighbours. Beloved saviours of the laws, we give you an outline of legislation which you must fill up, according to a rule which we will prescribe for you. I conceive them to be those of which he who has no use nor any knowledge at all cannot be a God, or demi-god, or hero to mankind, or able to take any serious thought or charge of them. For the living, when they are honoured by us, join in our prayers, and when they are dishonoured, they utter imprecations against us but lifeless objects do neither.
Now I fear that I may be charged with spinning a long discourse out of slender materials. Yet he censures the Egyptian meanness and inhospitality to strangers. How so.
And in order that the distribution may always remain, they ought to consider further that the present number of families should be always retained, and neither increased nor diminished. But if he leaves behind him children who are fit to be citizens, let the guardians of orphans take care of them, just as they would of any other orphans, from the day on which their father is convicted. In what respect. For nearly all the expressions which are adduced by Zeller as arguments against the genuineness of the Laws, Stallbaum finds some sort of authority. Florileg.
Let the begetting of children and the supervision of those who are begetting them continue ten years and no longer, during the time when marriage is fruitful.
For they mean by the rich the few who have the most valuable possessions, although the owner of them may quite well be a rogue. And next to ambition, base fear is a motive, which has led many an one to commit murder in order that he may get rid of the witnesses of his crimes. He cannot leave his old enemies, the Sophists, in possession of the field and therefore he proposes that youth shall learn by heart, instead of the compositions of poets or prose writers, his own inspired work on laws.
If he be made neither better nor worse, let him at least be praised for his zeal and let him receive still more praise, and special honour after death, if he be improved.
As true courage is allied to temperance, so there must be an education which shall train mankind to resist pleasure as well as to endure pain. And when we see soul in anything, must we not do the same - must we not admit that this is life.
To consecrate every sort of dance or melody. But in an oligarchy or democracy, when the governing principle is athirst for pleasure, the laws are trampled under foot, and there is no possibility of salvation. And now I hope that you in your turn will follow and watch me if I legislate with a view to anything but virtue, or with a view to a part of virtue only.
Hello, World!
The chief object of Plato in tracing the origin of society is to show the point at which regular government superseded the patriarchical authority, and the separate customs of different families were systematized by legislators, and took the form of laws consented to by them all. And he who is unable to acquire this in addition to the ordinary virtues of a citizen, can hardly be a good ruler of a whole state but he should be the subordinate of other rulers. About what.
And yet it may be urged on the other side that an author whose original powers are beginning to decay will be very liable to repeat himself, as in conversation, so in books. Very good, Cleinias and now let us all three consider a further point.
Next follows murder done from anger, which is of two kinds - either arising out of a sudden impulse, and attended with remorse or committed with premeditation, and unattended with remorse.
When do you mean.
But where shall we find the magistrate who is worthy to supervise them or look into their short-comings and crooked ways. But the citizen who has been brought up as our citizens will have been, if he be found guilty of robbing his country by fraud or violence, whether he be caught in the act or not, shall be punished with death for he is incurable. Quite true. Still we may be content. He would create a kindly spirit between creditors and debtors those who have should give to those who have not, and poverty should be held to be rather the increase of a mans desires than the diminution of his property.
The great defect of both his constitutions is the fixedness which he seeks to impress upon them. The basis of the Magnesian constitution is the equal division of land. If this were not required, Stranger, we should all of us be judges of beauty. The laws relating to marriage naturally come first, and therefore we may begin with them. You have understood my meaning right well, Cleinias, and now let me ask you another question.
Do we not regard all music as representative and imitative.
And yet almost all that I have been saying has been said with a view to them. To what are you referring. If a slave strike a freeman, whether citizen or stranger, let the bystander be obliged to seize and deliver him into the hands of the injured person, who may inflict upon him as many blows as he pleases, and shall then return him to his master. Any man may also carry off a freedman, if he do not pay respect or sufficient respect to him who freed him. Certainly.
Then he must be purified. First, he desires that his laws should be written down with all possible exactness in the second place, as time goes on and he has made an actual trial of his decrees, will he not find omissions. Their husbandry and their way of life in general will follow an appointed order, and their cultivation of the vine will be the most limited and the least common of their employments. Do not hesitate, Stranger I see that you are afraid of such a discussion carrying you beyond the limits of legislation.
For no man of sense, when he contemplates the universe, will be likely to substitute necessity for reason and will. The manner of his burial and the purification of his crime is a matter for God and the interpreters to decide and for his kinsmen to execute. The speculative truth which was the food of the guardians in the Republic, is for the majority of the citizens to be superseded by practical virtues.
Let us proceed, if you please. He who is detected in selling adulterated goods shall be deprived of them, and shall receive a stripe for every drachma of their value. And let all other offerings follow a similar rule.
But we have seen enough of improvement in our own time to justify us in the belief that the world is worth working for and that a good mans life is not thrown away.
We may surely rough-hew our materials first, and shape and place them afterwards.
What thing. Certainly. Fourthly, the virtues are affirmed to be inseparable from one another, even if not absolutely one this, too, is a principle which he reasserts at the conclusion of the work. These, Cleinias, were matters which properly came before the marriages - but, as we are only talking, there is no objection to changing the order.
True, I was and I am ready still, seeing that you have both declared that you are anxious to hear me. If a stranger unintentionally kill a stranger who is dwelling in the city, he who likes shall prosecute the cause according to the same rules. In the new state, as in the Republic, there was to be neither poverty nor riches. The first and second class shall be compelled to go to the assembly, but not the third and fourth, unless they are specially summoned. Yes, Stranger and when you have heard me speak, say boldly what is in your thoughts.
Why so. Night and day are not long enough for the consummation of it.
For the body is not for the sake of wealth, but wealth for the body, as the body is for the soul.
The precise 50-digits value of Pi is 3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937510.
To this the legislator should look, - not to the interests of tyrants one or more, or to the power of the people, but to justice always which, as I was saying, is the distribution of natural equality among unequals in each case. And he who will not abide by the decision shall suffer for his malignant and morose temper, and pay a fine to the injured party, equivalent to double the value of the injury, because he was unwilling to submit to the magistrates. I say must for mankind cannot be allowed to dispose of their property as they please, in ways at variance with one another and with law and custom. Those who have undergone the scrutiny shall judge the causes of those who have declined the inferior courts, and shall give their vote openly.
In the first place, we see clearly that the distribution will be of equals in one point of view, and in another point of view of unequals. Or shall some poet who has found his way into the city, or some chance person who pretends to be an instructor of youth, show himself to be better than him who has won the prize for every virtue.
I should expect so. The legislator, when he promulgates a particular law, will courteously entreat those who are willing to hear his voice.
And now do you try to explain to us your whole meaning, and we, on our part, will endeavour to understand you. Will not the legislator, observing the order of nature, begin by making regulations for states about births. This tendency was qualified by the complicated system of selection by vote, previous to the final election by lot, of which the object seems to be to hand over to the wealthy few the power of selecting from the many poor, and vice versa. Human nature is always having recourse to the first but only when organized into some form of priesthood falls into the other although in primitive as in later ages the institution of a priesthood may claim probably to be an advance on some form of religion which preceded. Every man who is worth anything will inform the magistrates, and bring the conspirator to trial for making a violent and illegal attempt to change the government.
These political adjustments of Platos will be criticised by the practical statesman as being for the most part fanciful and ineffectual. But I should rather say that such a hurt, whether great or small, is not an injury at all and, on the other hand, if I am right, when a benefit is wrongly conferred, the author of the benefit may often be said to injure. Retail trade in a city is not by nature intended to do any harm, but quite the contrary for is not he a benefactor who reduces the inequalities and incommensurabilities of goods to equality and common measure.
Yes but will he ever succeed in making all mankind use the same language about them. Well, now, when you praise and blame war in this high-flown strain, whom are you praising or blaming, and to which kind of war are you referring.
And therefore, if a man makes a right use of his father and grandfather and other aged relations, he will have images which above all others will win him the favour of the Gods. All these naturally take precedence of the other goods, and this is the order in which the legislator must place them, and after them he will enjoin the rest of his ordinances on the citizens with a view to these, the human looking to the divine, and the divine looking to their leader mind. And yet most persons say that the merit of music is to give pleasure. For if any one following nature should lay down the law which existed before the days of Laius, and denounce these lusts as contrary to nature, adducing the animals as a proof that such unions were monstrous, he might prove his point, but he would be wholly at variance with the custom of your states.
I said that there may have been singularity and danger in imposing such a custom at first, but that now there is not the same difficulty. Number like some other things is capable of being divided into equal parts when thus divided, number is named even, and the definition of the name even is number divisible into two equal parts. Pray go on, Stranger - compliments are troublesome, but we will show, not in word but in deed, how greatly we prize your words, for we will give them our best attention and that is the way in which a freeman best shows his approval or disapproval.
BOOK X.
The bride and bridegroom, who are taking a great step in life, ought to have all their wits about them they should be especially careful of the night on which God may give them increase, and which this will be none can say. While on service, their first duty will be to see that the country is well protected by means of fortifications and entrenchments they will use the beasts of burden and the labourers whom they find on the spot, taking care however not to interfere with the regular course of agriculture. Already in the Philebus the distinctive character of Socrates has disappeared and in the Timaeus, Sophist, and Statesman his function of chief speaker is handed over to the Pythagorean philosopher Timaeus, and to the Eleatic Stranger, at whose feet he sits, and is silent. He means to say that the good or evil disposition of the agent is the principle which characterizes actions and this is not sufficiently described by the terms voluntary and involuntary.
Tradition says that Caeneus, the Thessalian, was changed by a God from a woman into a man but the converse miracle cannot now be wrought, or no punishment would be more proper than that the man who throws away his shield should be changed into a woman.
For I consider that the lawgiver should go straight to the mark of virtue and justice, and disregard wealth and every other good when separated from virtue.